Epilepsy afflicts nearly 1% of the world's population, and is characterized by
the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. For many patients, anticonvulsant
medications can be given at sufficiently high doses to prevent seizures, but
patients frequently suffer side effects. For 20-40% of patients with epilepsy,
medications are not effective. Even after surgical removal of epilepsy, many
patients continue to experience spontaneous seizures. Despite the fact that
seizures occur infrequently, patients with epilepsy experience persistent
anxiety due to the possibility of a seizure occurring. Seizure forecasting
systems have the potential to help patients with epilepsy lead more normal
lives. In order for electrical brain activity (EEG) based seizure forecasting
systems to work effectively, computational algorithms must reliably identify
periods of increased probability of seizure occurrence. If these seizure-
permissive brain states can be identified, devices designed to warn patients
of impeding seizures would be possible. Patients could avoid potentially
dangerous activities like driving or swimming, and medications could be
administered only when needed to prevent impending seizures, reducing overall
side effects. The Competition Transitioning from the Kaggle contests held on
seizure detection and seizure prediction in 2014 that primarily involved long-
term electrical brain activity recordings from dogs, the current contest
focuses on seizure prediction using long-term electrical brain activity
recordings from humans obtained from the world-first clinical trial of the
implantable NeuroVista Seizure Advisory System. Human brain activity was
recorded in the form of intracranial EEG (iEEG), which involves electrodes
positioned on the surface of the cerebral cortex and the recording of
electrical signals with an ambulatory monitoring system. These are long
duration recordings, spanning multiple months up to multiple years and
recording large numbers of seizures in some humans. The challenge is to
distinguish between ten minute long data clips covering an hour prior to a
seizure, and ten minute iEEG clips of interictal activity. Acknowledgments
This competition is sponsored by MathWorks, the National Institutes of Health
(NINDS), the American Epilepsy Society and the University of Melbourne, and
organised in partnership with the Alliance for Epilepsy Research, the
University of Pennsylvania and the Mayo Clinic. References

