How can we use the world’s tools and intelligence to forecast economic
outcomes that can never be entirely predictable? This question is at the core
of countless economic activities around the world – including at Two Sigma
Investments, who has been applying technology and systematic strategies to
financial trading since 2001. For over 15 years, Two Sigma has been at the
forefront of applying technology and data science to financial forecasts.
While their pioneering advances in big data, AI, and machine learning in the
financial world have been pushing the industry forward, as with all other
scientific progress, they are driven to make continual progress. Through this
exclusive partnership, Two Sigma is excited to explore what untapped value
Kaggle's diverse data science community can discover in the financial markets.
Economic opportunity depends on the ability to deliver singularly accurate
forecasts in a world of uncertainty. By accurately predicting financial
movements, Kagglers will learn about scientifically-driven approaches to
unlocking significant predictive capability. Two Sigma is excited to find
predictive value and gain a better understanding of the skills offered by the
global data science crowd. What is a Code Competition? Welcome to Kaggle's
very first Code Competition! In contrast to our traditional competitions,
where competitors submit only prediction outputs, participants in Code
Competitions will submit their code via Kaggle Kernels. All kernels are
private by default in Code Competitions. You can build your models in Kernels
by running them on a training set and, once you're ready to submit your code,
your model's performance will be evaluated against the test set and your score
and public leaderboard position revealed. As with our traditional
competitions, we still maintain a private leaderboard test set, which your
code is also evaluated against for final scoring, but is not revealed until
the competition closes. Since Code Competitions are brand new, we ask for your
patience if you encounter bugs or frustrating platform quirks. Please report
any issues you find in the forums and we'll do our best to respond. Who owns
my code? You do. Even though you are submitting code, the intellectual
property exchange here works similarly to a standard prediction competition,
whereby prize winners have the option to grant a non-exclusive license in
exchange for a prize. There is a new addition to the terms for Code
Competitions: Kaggle and the competition host reserve a right to review
submissions "for purposes related to evaluation and scoring in this
Competition, including but not limited to the assessment of potential cheating
behavior." Please refer to the official competition rules for full details.
Getting Started Review the data page for details about the data and the
evaluation metric. You may download the train set for local training. Take a
look at the tutorial covering the new code submission process under the
submission instructions tab. You'll find step-by-step instructions, some
helpful pointers, plus details on environment constraints. Get feedback on
your benchmark code and share exploratory analyses with the community by
making any of your kernels public. Improve your score! Note: there is no cost
of entry for participation.

