Cervical cancer is so easy to prevent if caught in its pre-cancerous stage
that every woman should have access to effective, life-saving treatment no
matter where they live. Today, women worldwide in low-resource settings are
benefiting from programs where cancer is identified and treated in a single
visit. However, due in part to lacking expertise in the field, one of the
greatest challenges of these cervical cancer screen and treat programs is
determining the appropriate method of treatment which can vary depending on
patients’ physiological differences. Especially in rural parts of the world,
many women at high risk for cervical cancer are receiving treatment that will
not work for them due to the position of their cervix. This is a tragedy:
health providers are able to identify high risk patients, but may not have the
skills to reliably discern which treatment which will prevent cancer in these
women. Even worse, applying the wrong treatment has a high cost. A treatment
which works effectively for one woman may obscure future cancerous growth in
another woman, greatly increasing health risks. Currently, MobileODT offers a
Quality Assurance workflow to support remote supervision which helps
healthcare providers make better treatment decisions in rural settings.
However, their workflow would be greatly improved given the ability to make
real-time determinations about patients’ treatment eligibility based on cervix
type. In this competition, Intel is partnering with MobileODT to challenge
Kagglers to develop an algorithm which accurately identifies a woman’s cervix
type based on images. Doing so will prevent ineffectual treatments and allow
healthcare providers to give proper referral for cases that require more
advanced treatment. Competition Partner MobileODT has developed and sells the
Enhanced Visual Assessment (EVA) System, a digital toolkit for health care
workers of every level to provide expert services to patients, anchored at the
point-of-care by an FDA-approved, intelligent, mobile-phone based medical
device. Combining the algorithmic power of biomedical optics with the
computational capabilities and connectivity of mobile phones, MobileODT's
connected, intelligent medical systems can be used everywhere, under nearly
any conditions. MobileODT's first product, the FDA approved EVA System for
colposcopy, is in use by health providers in 31 hospital systems across the
US, and in 22 countries, to better screen and treat women for cervical cancer
and to conduct forensic colposcopy.

