Introduction Google AI (Google’s AI research arm, tasked with advancing AI for
everyone) is challenging you to build an algorithm that detects objects
automatically using an absolutely massive training dataset ― one with more
varied and complex bounding-box annotations and object classes than ever
before. Here's the background. Computers are getting better and better at
vision. But in a few critical ways, they still can't match a human’s intuitive
perception. For example, what do you see when you look at this photo? Most of
us would answer, “a sandy beach, the ocean, a few people walking, some trees,
grass, and buildings…a woman walking her dog right there! Oh yeah, and there
is a man holding a plastic cup.” Can a computer provide as precise an image
description? Google AI wants to further push the capabilities of computer
vision. We hope that providing very large training set will stimulate research
into more sophisticated object and relationship detection models that will
exceed current state-of-the-art performance. The results of this Challenge
will be presented at a workshop at the European Conference on Computer Vision
2018. Object Detection Track Object detection is a central task in computer
vision, with applications ranging across search, robotics, self-driving cars,
and many others. As deep network solutions become deeper and more complex,
they are often limited by the amount of training data available. With this in
mind, to spur advances in analyzing and understanding images, Google AI has
publicly released the Open Images dataset. Open Images follows the tradition
of PASCAL VOC, ImageNet and COCO, now at an unprecedented scale. The Open
Images Challenge is based on Open Images dataset. The training set of the
Challenge contains: 12M bounding-box annotations for 500 object classes on
1.7M training images Images of complex scenes with several objects–an average
of 7 boxes per image Highly varied images that contain brand new objects like
“fedora” and “snowman” Class hierarchy that reflects the relationships between
classes of Open Images. In this track of the Challenge, you are asked to build
the best performing algorithm for automatically detecting objects. Please
refer to the Open Images Challenge page for additional details on the dataset.
In addition to this Object Detection track, the Challenge also includes a
Visual Relationship Detection track to detect pairs of objects in particular
relations, e.g. "woman playing guitar," "beer on table," "dog inside car",
"man holding coffee", etc. The Visual Relationship Detection track is
available here. Example annotations. Left: Mark Paul Gosselaar plays the
guitar by Rhys A. Right: the house by anita kluska. Both images used under CC
BY 2.0 license.

