Welcome In this competition you'll notice there isn't a leaderboard, and you
are not required to develop a predictive model. This isn't a traditional
supervised Kaggle machine learning competition. CareerVillage.org is a
nonprofit that crowdsources career advice for underserved youth. Founded in
2011 in four classrooms in New York City, the platform has now served career
advice from 25,000 volunteer professionals to over 3.5M online learners. The
platform uses a Q&A; style similar to StackOverflow or Quora to provide
students with answers to any question about any career. In this Data Science
for Good challenge, CareerVillage.org, in partnership with Google.org, is
inviting you to help recommend questions to appropriate volunteers. To support
this challenge, CareerVillage.org has supplied five years of data. Problem
Statement The U.S. has almost 500 students for every guidance counselor.
Underserved youth lack the network to find their career role models, making
CareerVillage.org the only option for millions of young people in America and
around the globe with nowhere else to turn. To date, 25,000 volunteers have
created profiles and opted in to receive emails when a career question is a
good fit for them. This is where your skills come in. To help students get the
advice they need, the team at CareerVillage.org needs to be able to send the
right questions to the right volunteers. The notifications sent to volunteers
seem to have the greatest impact on how many questions are answered. Your
objective: develop a method to recommend relevant questions to the
professionals who are most likely to answer them. Criteria for Measuring
Solutions Performance: How well does the solution match professionals to the
questions they would be motivated to answer? CareerVillage.org will not be
able to live-test every submission, so a strong entry will clearly articulate
why it will be effective at motivating answers. Easy to implement: The
CareerVillage.org team wants to put the winning submissions to work, quickly.
A good entry will be well documented and easy to test in production.
Extensibility: In the future, CareerVillage.org aims to add more data features
and to accommodate new objectives. Winning submissions should allow for this
and other augmentations to be added in the future.

