In this competition, Kagglers will develop models capable of classifying mixed
patterns of proteins in microscope images. The Human Protein Atlas will use
these models to build a tool integrated with their smart-microscopy system to
identify a protein's location(s) from a high-throughput image. Proteins are
“the doers” in the human cell, executing many functions that together enable
life. Historically, classification of proteins has been limited to single
patterns in one or a few cell types, but in order to fully understand the
complexity of the human cell, models must classify mixed patterns across a
range of different human cells. Images visualizing proteins in cells are
commonly used for biomedical research, and these cells could hold the key for
the next breakthrough in medicine. However, thanks to advances in high-
throughput microscopy, these images are generated at a far greater pace than
what can be manually evaluated. Therefore, the need is greater than ever for
automating biomedical image analysis to accelerate the understanding of human
cells and disease. Nature Methods has indicated interest in considering a
paper discussing the outcome and approaches of the challenge. The Human
Protein Atlas team would like to invite top performing teams to join as co-
authors in the writing of this paper. Top performing teams will also be
eligible to compete for the special prize. Additional information for both the
special prize and co-authoring for Nature Methods will become available
through the Discussion posts once the main competition is complete.
Acknowledgements The Human Protein Atlas is a Sweden-based initiative aimed at
mapping all human proteins in cells, tissues and organs. All the data in the
knowledge resource is open access to allow anyone to pursue exploration of the
human proteome. In a recent publication, the Human Protein Atlas team has
demonstrated the promise of both citizen science and artificial intelligence
approaches in describing the location of human proteins in images, however
current results are yet to approach expert-level annotations (Sullivan et al,
Nature Biotechnology, Oct 2018).

