While long lines and frantically shuffling luggage into plastic bins isn’t a
fun experience, airport security is a critical and necessary requirement for
safe travel. No one understands the need for both thorough security screenings
and short wait times more than U.S. Transportation Security Administration
(TSA). They’re responsible for all U.S. airport security, screening more than
two million passengers daily. As part of their Apex Screening at Speed
Program, DHS has identified high false alarm rates as creating significant
bottlenecks at the airport checkpoints. Whenever TSA’s sensors and algorithms
predict a potential threat, TSA staff needs to engage in a secondary, manual
screening process that slows everything down. And as the number of travelers
increase every year and new threats develop, their prediction algorithms need
to continually improve to meet the increased demand. Currently, TSA purchases
updated algorithms exclusively from the manufacturers of the scanning
equipment used. These algorithms are proprietary, expensive, and often
released in long cycles. In this competition, TSA is stepping outside their
established procurement process and is challenging the broader data science
community to help improve the accuracy of their threat prediction algorithms.
Using a dataset of images collected on the latest generation of scanners,
participants are challenged to identify the presence of simulated threats
under a variety of object types, clothing types, and body types. Even a modest
decrease in false alarms will help TSA significantly improve the passenger
experience while maintaining high levels of security. This is a two-stage
competition. Please read our two-stage FAQs to understand more about what this
means. All persons contained in the dataset are volunteers who have agreed to
have their images used for this competition. The images may contain sensitive
content. We kindly request that you conduct yourself with professionalism,
respect, and maturity when working with this data.

