In the United States, lung cancer strikes 225,000 people every year, and
accounts for $12 billion in health care costs. Early detection is critical to
give patients the best chance at recovery and survival. One year ago, the
office of the U.S. Vice President spearheaded a bold new initiative, the
Cancer Moonshot, to make a decade's worth of progress in cancer prevention,
diagnosis, and treatment in just 5 years. In 2017, the Data Science Bowl will
be a critical milestone in support of the Cancer Moonshot by convening the
data science and medical communities to develop lung cancer detection
algorithms. Using a data set of thousands of high-resolution lung scans
provided by the National Cancer Institute, participants will develop
algorithms that accurately determine when lesions in the lungs are cancerous.
This will dramatically reduce the false positive rate that plagues the current
detection technology, get patients earlier access to life-saving
interventions, and give radiologists more time to spend with their patients.
This year, the Data Science Bowl will award $1 million in prizes to those who
observe the right patterns, ask the right questions, and in turn, create
unprecedented impact around cancer screening care and prevention. The funds
for the prize purse will be provided by the Laura and John Arnold Foundation.
Visit DataScienceBowl.com to: • Sign up to receive news about the competition
• Learn about the history of the Data Science Bowl and past competitions •
Read our latest insights on emerging analytics techniques Acknowledgments The
Data Science Bowl is presented by Competition Sponsors Laura and John Arnold
Foundation Cancer Imaging Program of the National Cancer Institute American
College of Radiology Amazon Web Services NVIDIA Data Support Providers
National Lung Screening Trial The Cancer Imaging Archive Diagnostic Image
Analysis Group, Radboud University Lahey Hospital & Medical Center Copenhagen
University Hospital Supporting Organizations Bayes Impact Black Data Processng
Associates Code the Change Data Community DC DataKind Galvanize Great Minds in
STEM Hortonworks INFORMS Lesbians Who Tech NSBE Society of Asian Scientists &
Engineers Society of Women Engineers University of Texas Austin, Business
Analytics Program, McCombs School of Business US Dept. of Health and Human
Services US Food and Drug Administration Women in Technology Women of
Cyberjutsu

